Appliances like refrigerators, cooking appliances, and color televisions are commonplace in modern homes regardless of income level. The U.S. Energy Information Administration reports that between 98-99% percent of households utilize these appliances[1].
Most customers and manufacturers agree that the average new major appliance should last around 10 years. Some brands advertise 10 years and other certain brands make far bolder claims of 20 year lifespans. However, oftentimes that product lifespan includes repairs and servicing. Data from tens of thousands of surveyed people, published in the magazine Consumer Reports in 2019, indicates that appliances will need servicing within the first five years of purchase[2].
Many people need talent to repair their home appliances. Finding someone to perform this service can be challenging, as there are many different places repair technicians may advertise. There are also many individuals, small businesses, and independent workers wanting to increase their market and reach more customers in need. Appliance owners need a system that can help them find and evaluate qualified maintenance personnel for their appliances. Household Equipment Repair (HER) will serve as the liaison between these two groups of people. It will receive both requests for jobs to be done and offers of services and labor so they can be matched with each other. Customers will have the opportunity to get the job they need done by someone trusted and reviewed, and small business owners will have the chance to advertise their services and reach more of the public.
The HER will offer a desktop based platform, allowing customers and technicians to sign up for a user account. Technicians will provide their locations and the types of appliances they are able to service. Customers will provide their location and the type of appliance they own that currently needs servicing. The system will match the customer to several local options, ranked by location and experience. They will then be able to make an informed selection.
The following sections of the report will explain in detail the problems typically faced by consumers needing repair technicians and technicians attempting to find customers to grow their business. The different approaches considered for the HER will be discussed and the benefits of the final solution will be defined. The manner in which this project was managed and the work and meetings that contributed to the final implementation will be documented, followed by the conclusion of this project and explanation of the final outcome of the system. Further opportunities for improvement and growth of the product will also be considered.
